# CIDERFINDER
#### Video Demo:  <https://youtu.be/WpyZ0tbzipo>
#### Description: CiderFinder makes it easy to find craft ciders you will love. It allows you to search a database of hundreds of commercially-available ciders that you can purchase online by keywords like apple varietal, processing type, region, and more.
#### Interest in ciders made using heirloom apple single varietals or craft blends has increased over the last two decades, but there are considerably fewer resources for the potential consumer to search for the types of ciders they want. While there are many wine and beer websites that have a wealth of information on the different ingredients and processing methods, allowing you to find many options for the types of wines and beers you are looking for, there are fewer options for cider. CiderFinder was created to enhance  the ability for the specialty cider consumer to get connected with the cider producers who make the products they want.
#### CiderFinder is a Flask app. The following explains its components:
#### App.py: This is the base application written in Python. It has two routes: The first route is “/”, which assembles the ciders database using a function defined in helpers.py and using CS50’s db.execute, and returns the CiderFinder main page. The second route is “/about”, which returns an about page.
#### Helpers.py: This Python file contains two functions. The first is scraper(), which pulls data on ciders you can find online and assembles it into a database using CS50’s db.execute. It relies on BeautifulSoup to pull this data. Data pulled includes each cider’s name, price, description, and a link to its image. The second function is update_db(), which is used by scraper(). This function helps prevent the same cider from being added to the database multiple times. It checks if a cider has been already loaded into the database; if so, it updates that data for that database row instead of adding a new row.
#### Layout.html: This is the layout that can be used for all subsequent .html files using Jinja. It uses Boostrap to style the web page, improving its aesthetics.  It uses a custom icon created using favicon.io. Finally, it uses the Bootstrap navbar to display a navigation bar that looks good across a variety of screen sizes.
#### Index.html: This is the main page of the web app. It brings in the template defined in Layout.html. It renders a table using the data provided from App.py’s “/” route. The table rendered uses Bootstrap to help with proper rendering across a variety of screen sizes. The table has three columns: Name, Price, and Description. They list the cider data provided by the database. The most powerful part of this page is a function called filtertable() that allows the user to type any keywords they want into the search bar, and the table will automatically update with a list of results that match that query. For example, if you search by “Ablemarle Pippin” or “Manchurian Crab” or “wild fermented”, it will search the database for any item names or descriptions that contain that text, and if so, the table will display that result. 